INFIT+OUTFIT in SAS (ref) and eRm (ref) 



DISCUSSION:


for the dichotomous rasch model Kreiner and Christensen studied ... exact


Wolfe (2013): explains how three implementations of the bootstrap procedure works

Dimitrov, Smith - person fit
In the context of person fit Magis et al adapted a general approach proposed by Snijders (2001) to correct infit and outfit indexes and compared corrected indexes are compared to their classical versions using a simulation study. The correction was found to control Type I errors, while significantly increasing power to detect specific misfitting response patterns gets 

Rasch model, a 

It is essential to use item fit statistics that accurately and reliably detect person-item response inconsistencies that threaten the measurement objectivity of persons and items. 

Residual fit statistics like the infit and the outfit of the Rasch model are arguably the most often used item fit statistics

Karabatsos [Karabatsos G, Journal of Applied Measurement, vol. 1, 152-176, 2000] provided a critical analysis of these illustrating that the task of Rasch fit analysis is not as simple and straightforward as it appears to be. The faulty statistical properties of the residual fit statistics do not allow either a convenient or a straightforward approach to Rasch fit analysis. For any of these fit statistic, the use of a single minimum critical value for misfit diagnosis across different testing situations, where the situations vary in sample and test properties, leads to both the overdetection and underdetection of misfit. 


Karabatsos advocated the use of residual-free Rasch fit statistics based on the number of Guttman response errors, or use indices that are statistically optimal in detecting measurement disturbances.


The empirical standard deviations of the infit and outfit mean squares become smaller as the sample size becomes larger

A common critical range (e.g., 1 ± 0.3) for the MNSQs to screen misfitting items is not appropriate because the variability of the MNSQs is changed with sample sizes. The critical ranges of the infit and outfitMNSQs should be adjusted according to sample sizes. In addition, the infit and outfitMNSQs should not share the same critical ranges, because they showed different magnitudes of variability. Themaximumand minimum of the infit and outfitMNSQsacross the 500 replications, shown in Table 5, were not symmetric around unity, especially those of the outfit MNSQs. When the sample sizes were as small as 200, the maximumof the outfitMNSQscould be as large as 2.54. Therefore, thecom- monly used 1 ± 0.2, 0.3, or 0.4 critical ranges were so harsh that many good itemswould be identified as misfitting items

means of t-transformed infit and outfit item fit statistics very close to zero, but standard deviations were considerably smaller one more so for the t-transformed infit item fit statistics. Moreover, as tests became longer, the standard deviations of the infit and outfit ZSTDs became slightly smaller. The relationships between the standard deviations of the infit and outfitZSTDsand the item parameters are depicted in Figures 4 and 5 under the four extreme conditions, respectively. In general, the standarddevi- ations of the infit and outfitZSTDswere very close to unity for items with dif- ficulties of approximately 0 logits. As item difficulties became more extreme, the standard deviations became smaller, especially for the infit ZSTDs. Therefore, it is safe to use the usual critical ranges (e.g., ±2 at the .05 level) to screen the misfitting items with moderate difficultie




[Wang W-C, Chen C-T. Item Parameter Recovery, Standard Error Estimates, and Fit Statistics of the Winsteps Program for the Family of Rasch Models. Educ. Psychol. Meas. 2005;65(3):376-404. doi:10.1177/0013164404268673.]


